You will now get an overview
of logistic regression.
Previously, you learned
to extract features,
and now you will use
those extracted features
to predict whether
a tweet has a positive sentiment
or a negative sentiment.
Logistic regression makes
use of a sigmoid function
which outputs a probability
between zero and one.
Let's take a look at the
overview of logistic regression.
Just a quick recap.
In supervised machine learning,
you have input features
and a sets of labels.
To make predictions
based on your data,
you use a function
with some parameters
to map your features
to output labels.
To get an optimum mapping
from your features to labels,
you minimize the cost function
which works by
comparing how closely
your output Y hat is to the
true labels Y from your data.
After which the parameters
are updated and
you repeat the process until
your cost is minimized.
For logistic regression,
this function
F is equal to the
sigmoid function.
The function used to classify in
logistic regression H is
the sigmoid function and
it depends on the parameters
Theta and then the
features vector X superscripts i,
where i is used to denote
the ith observation
or data points.
In the context of tweets,
that's the ith tweets.
Visually, the
sigmoid function has
this form and it approaches
zero as the dot product
of Theta transpose X,
over here, approaches minus
infinity and one as it
approaches infinity.
For classification, a
threshold is needed.
Usually, it is set to be
0.5 and this value corresponds to
a dot product between
Theta transpose and
X equal to zero.
So whenever the dot product is
greater or equal than zero,
the prediction is positive,
and whenever the dot
product is less than zero,
the prediction is negative.
So let's look at an example in
the now familiar context of
tweets and sentiment analysis.
Look at the following tweet.
After a preprocessing, you should
end up with a list like this.
Note that handles are deleted,
everything is in
lowercase and the word
tuning is reduced
to its stem, tun.
Then you would be able to
extract features given
a frequencies dictionary and
arrive at a vector
similar to the following.
With a bias units over here
and two features that are the sum
of positive and
negative frequencies
of all the words in
your processed tweets.
Now assuming that
you already have
an optimum sets of
parameters Theta,
you would be able to
get the value of the
sigmoid function,
in this case, equal to 4.92,
and finally, predict
a positive sentiment.
Now that you know the notation
for logistic regression,
you can use it to train
a weight factor Theta.
In the next video,
you will learn about the
mechanics behind training
such a logistic
regression classifier.